Semantic Search

Definition: Semantic search is a search method that goes beyond simple keyword matching by understanding the meaning of the user¡¯s query to return relevant results.
Example: If a user searches for ¡°planets in the solar system,¡± the system might return information about related planets such as ¡°Jupiter¡± or ¡°Mars.¡±
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Search Algorithms, Data Mining

Embedding

Definition: Embedding is the process of converting textual data, such as words or sentences, into low-dimensional continuous vectors. This allows computers to better understand and process the text.
Example: The word ¡°apple¡± might be represented as a vector like [0.65, -0.23, 0.17].
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Vectorization, Deep Learning

Token

Definition: A token refers to a smaller unit of text obtained by splitting a larger text. It can be a word, sentence, or phrase.
Example: The sentence ¡°I go to school¡± can be split into tokens: ¡°I¡±, ¡°go¡±, ¡°to¡±, ¡°school¡±.
Related Keywords: Tokenization, Natural Language Processing, Parsing

Tokenizer

Definition: A tokenizer is a tool that splits text data into tokens. It is commonly used in natural language processing for data preprocessing.
Example: The sentence ¡°I love programming.¡± can be tokenized into [¡°I¡±, ¡°love¡±, ¡°programming¡±, ¡°.¡±].
Related Keywords: Tokenization, Natural Language Processing, Parsing

VectorStore

Definition: A vector store is a system for storing data in vector form. It is used for tasks like retrieval, classification, and other data analysis.
Example: Word embedding vectors can be stored in a database for quick access.
Related Keywords: Embedding, Database, Vectorization

SQL

Definition: SQL (Structured Query Language) is a programming language for managing data in databases. It supports operations like querying, modifying, inserting, and deleting data.
Example: SELECT * FROM users WHERE age > 18; retrieves information about users older than 18.
Related Keywords: Database, Query, Data Management

CSV

Definition: CSV (Comma-Separated Values) is a file format for storing data where each value is separated by a comma. It is often used for simple data storage and exchange in tabular form.
Example: A CSV file with headers ¡°Name, Age, Job¡± might contain data like ¡°John Doe, 30, Developer¡±.
Related Keywords: File Format, Data Handling, Data Exchange

JSON

Definition: JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data exchange format that represents data objects in a human- and machine-readable text format.
Example: {"name": "John Doe", "age": 30, "job": "Developer"} is an example of JSON data.
Related Keywords: Data Exchange, Web Development, API

Transformer

Definition: A transformer is a type of deep learning model used in natural language processing for tasks like translation, summarization, and text generation. It is based on the attention mechanism.
Example: Google Translate uses transformer models to perform translations between languages.
Related Keywords: Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Attention

HuggingFace

Definition: HuggingFace is a library that provides pre-trained models and tools for natural language processing, making NLP tasks more accessible to researchers and developers.
Example: HuggingFace¡¯s Transformers library can be used for tasks like sentiment analysis and text generation.
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning, Library

Digital Transformation

Definition: Digital transformation refers to the process of leveraging technology to innovate a company¡¯s services, culture, and operations, enhancing competitiveness through digital solutions.
Example: A company adopting cloud computing to revolutionize its data storage and processing is an example of digital transformation.
Related Keywords: Innovation, Technology, Business Model

Crawling

Definition: Crawling is the automated process of visiting web pages to collect data. It is commonly used in search engine optimization and data analysis.
Example: Google¡¯s search engine crawls websites to collect content and index it.
Related Keywords: Data Collection, Web Scraping, Search Engine

Word2Vec

Definition: Word2Vec is a natural language processing technique that maps words to a vector space to represent semantic relationships between words based on their context.
Example: In a Word2Vec model, ¡°king¡± and ¡°queen¡± might be located close to each other in the vector space.
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Embedding, Semantic Similarity

LLM (Large Language Model)

Definition: LLM refers to large-scale language models trained on massive text datasets, used for a variety of natural language understanding and generation tasks.
Example: OpenAI¡¯s GPT series is a prominent example of large language models.
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning, Text Generation

FAISS (Facebook AI Similarity Search)

Definition: FAISS is a high-speed similarity search library developed by Facebook, designed for efficient retrieval of similar vectors from large-scale datasets.
Example: FAISS can be used to quickly find similar images from millions of image vectors.
Related Keywords: Vector Search, Machine Learning, Database Optimization

Open Source

Definition: Open source refers to software whose source code is publicly available for anyone to use, modify, and distribute. It fosters collaboration and innovation.
Example: The Linux operating system is a notable open-source project.
Related Keywords: Software Development, Community, Collaboration

Structured Data

Definition: Structured data is organized according to a predefined format or schema, making it easy to search and analyze.
Example: A customer information table stored in a relational database is an example of structured data.
Related Keywords: Database, Data Analysis, Data Modeling

Parser

Definition: A parser is a tool that analyzes given data (e.g., strings, files) and converts it into a structured form. It is used in tasks like programming language parsing or file data processing.
Example: Parsing an HTML document to generate the DOM structure of a web page is an example of parsing.
Related Keywords: Parsing, Compiler, Data Processing

TF-IDF (Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency)

Definition: TF-IDF is a statistical measure used to evaluate the importance of a word in a document based on its frequency in the document and its rarity across all documents.
Example: Words that appear frequently in a document but rarely across others will have high TF-IDF values.
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval, Data Mining

Deep Learning

Definition: Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that uses neural networks to solve complex problems by learning high-level representations from data.
Example: Deep learning models are used in tasks like image recognition, speech recognition, and natural language processing.
Related Keywords: Neural Networks, Machine Learning, Data Analysis

Schema

Definition: A schema defines the structure of a database or file, outlining how data is stored and organized.
Example: A relational database schema defines column names, data types, and key constraints for a table.
Related Keywords: Database, Data Modeling, Data Management

DataFrame

Definition: A DataFrame is a table-like data structure consisting of rows and columns, commonly used in data analysis and manipulation.
Example: In the Pandas library, a DataFrame can have columns of different data types and allows efficient data manipulation and analysis.
Related Keywords: Data Analysis, Pandas, Data Processing

Attention Mechanism

Definition: The attention mechanism is a technique in deep learning that focuses more on the most relevant parts of the input data. It is often used for sequence data (e.g., text, time-series data).
Example: In a translation model, the attention mechanism highlights important parts of the input sentence to generate accurate translations.
Related Keywords: Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Sequence Modeling

Pandas

Definition: Pandas is a Python library providing tools for data analysis and manipulation. It enables efficient handling of structured data.
Example: With Pandas, you can read a CSV file, clean the data, and perform various analyses.
Related Keywords: Data Analysis, Python, Data Processing

GPT (Generative Pretrained Transformer)

Definition: GPT is a generative language model pretrained on large datasets, capable of performing various text-based tasks by generating natural language.
Example: A chatbot generating detailed answers to user queries can use a GPT model.
Related Keywords: Natural Language Processing, Text Generation, Deep Learning

InstructGPT

Definition: InstructGPT is a GPT model optimized for following user instructions to perform specific tasks. It is designed to generate more accurate and relevant outputs.
Example: When asked to ¡°write an email draft,¡± InstructGPT generates an email based on the given context.
Related Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Understanding, Instruction-Based Processing

Keyword Search

Definition: Keyword search is the process of finding information based on the user¡¯s input keywords. It is the basic search method used in most search engines and database systems.
Example: Searching for ¡°coffee shops in Seoul¡± returns a list of related coffee shops.
Related Keywords: Search Engine, Data Retrieval, Information Retrieval

Page Rank

Definition: PageRank is an algorithm that evaluates the importance of web pages, primarily used to rank search engine results. It analyzes the link structure between web pages.
Example: Google¡¯s search engine uses PageRank to determine the order of search results.
Related Keywords: Search Engine Optimization, Web Analytics, Link Analysis

Data Mining

Definition: Data mining is the process of extracting useful information from large datasets using techniques like statistics, machine learning, and pattern recognition.
Example: Retailers analyzing customer purchase data to develop marketing strategies is an example of data mining.
Related Keywords: Big Data, Pattern Recognition, Predictive Analytics

Multimodal

Definition: Multimodal refers to combining multiple types of data (e.g., text, images, audio) for processing. It is used to extract or predict richer and more accurate information through cross-modal interactions.
Example: A system that analyzes images and descriptive text together for better image classification is an example of multimodal technology.
Related Keywords: Data Fusion, Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning